POWERAUTOMATE_DEBUGGING_GUIDE.md, before:

# PowerAutomate iCal Integration Debugging Guide

This guide helps diagnose and resolve issues with PowerAutomate Logic App URLs that generate iCal content but return 0 events in FloHub.

## Problem Description

**Issue**: PowerAutomate Logic App URL downloads a valid ICS file when accessed directly in a browser, but FloHub reports 0 events when testing the URL.

**Example URL Format**:
```
https://prod-63.australiasoutheast.logic.azure.com/workflows/fbf82878b8a3432fb79865fc70b74afb/triggers/manual/paths/invoke?api-version=2016-06-01&sp=%2Ftriggers%2Fmanual%2Frun&sv=1.0&sig=3NsS298ycGU9rjtrxhGJq8x4X47HDSxhTDpIqK2FlF8
```

## Debugging Enhancements

### Enhanced Test Endpoint

The `/api/calendar/test-ical` endpoint has been enhanced with comprehensive debugging:

**New Features**:
- **Response Analysis**: Captures HTTP status, content-type, headers, and response length
- **Content Validation**: Checks if response contains valid iCal structure (`BEGIN:VCALENDAR`)
- **Response Preview**: Shows first 200 characters of the response for debugging
- **Header Analysis**: Examines all response headers to identify format issues

**Usage**:
1. Go to Settings → Calendar Settings
2. Click "Add iCal Calendar" 
3. Enter your PowerAutomate URL
4. Click "Test URL" to get detailed debugging information

### Enhanced Main Calendar API

The main calendar API (`/api/calendar`) now includes special debugging for PowerAutomate URLs:

**PowerAutomate Detection**:
- Automatically detects URLs containing `logic.azure.com`
- Performs preliminary fetch to analyze the response
- Logs detailed information about the response format

**Debug Information Logged**:
- HTTP status code
- Content-Type header
- Response length
- Whether response contains `BEGIN:VCALENDAR`
- First 100 characters of response

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 1. Content-Type Header Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate might not set the correct `Content-Type` header.

**Expected Headers**:
- `text/calendar`
- `application/calendar`
- `text/plain` (also acceptable)

**Solution**: Ensure your PowerAutomate Logic App sets the correct response headers:
```json
{
  "headers": {
    "Content-Type": "text/calendar; charset=utf-8"
  },
  "body": "@{variables('icalContent')}"
}
```

### 2. Response Format Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate response might not be properly formatted iCal.

**Check for**:
- Response starts with `BEGIN:VCALENDAR`
- Response ends with `END:VCALENDAR`
- Valid iCal structure between tags
- Proper line endings (CRLF or LF)

**Example Valid iCal Structure**:
```ical
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//PowerAutomate//NONSGML Calendar//EN
BEGIN:VEVENT
UID:event1@domain.com
DTSTART:20241215T100000Z
DTEND:20241215T110000Z
SUMMARY:Test Event
DESCRIPTION:Test Description
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
```

### 3. Authentication/Access Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate URL might require specific authentication or be accessible only under certain conditions.

**Check**:
- URL is publicly accessible without authentication
- Logic App has proper trigger configuration
- API permissions are correctly set

### 4. Encoding Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate might return encoded content that node-ical can't parse.

**Solutions**:
- Ensure UTF-8 encoding
- Check for BOM (Byte Order Mark) issues
- Verify line ending format

### 5. Empty Response or Conditional Logic

**Problem**: PowerAutomate Logic App might return empty content or have conditional logic that prevents event generation.

**Check**:
- Logic App conditions and filters
- Data source availability
- Query parameters and logic

## Debugging Steps

### Step 1: Test URL Directly
1. Copy your PowerAutomate URL
2. Paste it directly into a browser
3. Verify it downloads a valid .ics file
4. Open the .ics file in a text editor and verify structure

### Step 2: Use Enhanced Test Endpoint
1. Go to FloHub Settings → Calendar Settings
2. Click "Add iCal Calendar"
3. Enter PowerAutomate URL
4. Click "Test URL" 
5. Review the detailed debugging information returned

### Step 3: Check Server Logs
Monitor the server console logs for PowerAutomate-specific debugging:
```
PowerAutomate URL detected, adding extra debugging...
PowerAutomate Debug: {
  status: 200,
  contentType: 'application/octet-stream',
  responseLength: 1234,
  hasVCalendar: true,
  responseStart: 'BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0...'
}
```

### Step 4: Validate iCal Content
Use online iCal validators to verify the content:
- [iCalendar.org Validator](https://icalendar.org/validator.html)
- Copy the response content and validate manually

## PowerAutomate Logic App Configuration

### Recommended Response Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "Response",
  "inputs": {
    "statusCode": 200,
    "headers": {
      "Content-Type": "text/calendar; charset=utf-8",
      "Content-Disposition": "attachment; filename=calendar.ics"
    },
    "body": "@{variables('icalContent')}"
  }
}
```

### Sample iCal Generation in PowerAutomate

```json
{
  "type": "Initialize variable",
  "inputs": {
    "variables": [
      {
        "name": "icalContent",
        "type": "string",
        "value": "BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0\nPRODID:-//PowerAutomate//NONSGML Calendar//EN\nBEGIN:VEVENT\nUID:@{guid()}@domain.com\nDTSTAMP:@{formatDateTime(utcNow(), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nDTSTART:@{formatDateTime(variables('eventStart'), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nDTEND:@{formatDateTime(variables('eventEnd'), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nSUMMARY:@{variables('eventTitle')}\nDESCRIPTION:@{variables('eventDescription')}\nEND:VEVENT\nEND:VCALENDAR"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Troubleshooting Checklist

- [ ] URL is accessible and returns HTTP 200
- [ ] Response contains `BEGIN:VCALENDAR` and `END:VCALENDAR`
- [ ] Content-Type header is set appropriately
- [ ] iCal structure is valid (use validator)
- [ ] Events are within the date range being queried
- [ ] PowerAutomate Logic App has events to return
- [ ] No authentication required for the URL
- [ ] Character encoding is UTF-8
- [ ] Line endings are consistent

## Enhanced Debugging Output

The enhanced test endpoint now returns comprehensive debugging information:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "eventCount": 0,
  "upcomingEvents": 0,
  "calendarInfo": {},
  "responseInfo": {
    "status": 200,
    "statusText": "OK",
    "contentType": "application/octet-stream",
    "contentLength": "542",
    "responseLength": 542,
    "responsePreview": "BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0\n...",
    "headers": {
      "content-type": "application/octet-stream",
      "content-length": "542",
      "server": "Microsoft-IIS/10.0"
    }
  },
  "message": "Successfully parsed iCal feed with 0 total events (0 upcoming)"
}
```

## Next Steps

If the PowerAutomate URL still returns 0 events after following this guide:

1. **Share Debug Output**: Provide the complete responseInfo from the test endpoint
2. **Validate iCal Content**: Use external validators to confirm the iCal structure
3. **Check Date Ranges**: Ensure events fall within the current date range being queried
4. **Review Logic App Logic**: Verify the PowerAutomate Logic App is generating events correctly

This debugging framework provides comprehensive insights into why PowerAutomate iCal integration might fail and offers actionable solutions for each common issue.

Commit message:

Improve PowerAutomate URL debugging with enhanced timeout handling
Co-authored-by: amascaro08 <amascaro08@gmail.com>

POWERAUTOMATE_DEBUGGING_GUIDE.md, after:

# PowerAutomate iCal Integration Debugging Guide

This guide helps diagnose and resolve issues with PowerAutomate Logic App URLs that generate iCal content but return 0 events in FloHub.

## Problem Description

**Issue**: PowerAutomate Logic App URL downloads a valid ICS file when accessed directly in a browser, but FloHub reports 0 events when testing the URL. The error "The operation was aborted due to timeout" indicates the Logic App is taking longer than expected to generate the iCal content.

**Example URL Format**:
```
https://prod-63.australiasoutheast.logic.azure.com/workflows/fbf82878b8a3432fb79865fc70b74afb/triggers/manual/paths/invoke?api-version=2016-06-01&sp=%2Ftriggers%2Fmanual%2Frun&sv=1.0&sig=3NsS298ycGU9rjtrxhGJq8x4X47HDSxhTDpIqK2FlF8
```

## Debugging Enhancements

### Enhanced Test Endpoint

The `/api/calendar/test-ical` endpoint has been enhanced with comprehensive debugging and **30-second timeout**:

**New Features**:
- **Extended Timeout**: 30-second timeout to accommodate slow PowerAutomate Logic Apps
- **Response Analysis**: Captures HTTP status, content-type, headers, and response length
- **Content Validation**: Checks if response contains valid iCal structure (`BEGIN:VCALENDAR`)
- **Response Preview**: Shows first 200 characters of the response for debugging
- **Header Analysis**: Examines all response headers to identify format issues
- **PowerAutomate-Specific Error Messages**: Detailed guidance for timeout issues

**Usage**:
1. Go to Settings → Calendar Settings
2. Click "Add iCal Calendar" 
3. Enter your PowerAutomate URL
4. Click "Test URL" to get detailed debugging information

### Enhanced Main Calendar API

The main calendar API (`/api/calendar`) now includes special debugging for PowerAutomate URLs:

**PowerAutomate Detection**:
- Automatically detects URLs containing `logic.azure.com`
- Performs preliminary fetch to analyze the response
- Logs detailed information about the response format

**Debug Information Logged**:
- HTTP status code
- Content-Type header
- Response length
- Whether response contains `BEGIN:VCALENDAR`
- First 100 characters of response

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 1. Content-Type Header Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate might not set the correct `Content-Type` header.

**Expected Headers**:
- `text/calendar`
- `application/calendar`
- `text/plain` (also acceptable)

**Solution**: Ensure your PowerAutomate Logic App sets the correct response headers:
```json
{
  "headers": {
    "Content-Type": "text/calendar; charset=utf-8"
  },
  "body": "@{variables('icalContent')}"
}
```

### 2. Response Format Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate response might not be properly formatted iCal.

**Check for**:
- Response starts with `BEGIN:VCALENDAR`
- Response ends with `END:VCALENDAR`
- Valid iCal structure between tags
- Proper line endings (CRLF or LF)

**Example Valid iCal Structure**:
```ical
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//PowerAutomate//NONSGML Calendar//EN
BEGIN:VEVENT
UID:event1@domain.com
DTSTART:20241215T100000Z
DTEND:20241215T110000Z
SUMMARY:Test Event
DESCRIPTION:Test Description
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
```

### 3. Authentication/Access Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate URL might require specific authentication or be accessible only under certain conditions.

**Check**:
- URL is publicly accessible without authentication
- Logic App has proper trigger configuration
- API permissions are correctly set

### 4. Encoding Issues

**Problem**: PowerAutomate might return encoded content that node-ical can't parse.

**Solutions**:
- Ensure UTF-8 encoding
- Check for BOM (Byte Order Mark) issues
- Verify line ending format

### 5. Empty Response or Conditional Logic

**Problem**: PowerAutomate Logic App might return empty content or have conditional logic that prevents event generation.

**Check**:
- Logic App conditions and filters
- Data source availability
- Query parameters and logic

## Debugging Steps

### Step 1: Test URL Directly
1. Copy your PowerAutomate URL
2. Paste it directly into a browser
3. Verify it downloads a valid .ics file
4. Open the .ics file in a text editor and verify structure

### Step 2: Use Enhanced Test Endpoint
1. Go to FloHub Settings → Calendar Settings
2. Click "Add iCal Calendar"
3. Enter PowerAutomate URL
4. Click "Test URL" 
5. Review the detailed debugging information returned

### Step 3: Check Server Logs
Monitor the server console logs for PowerAutomate-specific debugging:
```
PowerAutomate URL detected, adding extra debugging...
PowerAutomate Debug: {
  status: 200,
  contentType: 'application/octet-stream',
  responseLength: 1234,
  hasVCalendar: true,
  responseStart: 'BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0...'
}
```

### Step 4: Validate iCal Content
Use online iCal validators to verify the content:
- [iCalendar.org Validator](https://icalendar.org/validator.html)
- Copy the response content and validate manually

## PowerAutomate Logic App Configuration

### Recommended Response Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "Response",
  "inputs": {
    "statusCode": 200,
    "headers": {
      "Content-Type": "text/calendar; charset=utf-8",
      "Content-Disposition": "attachment; filename=calendar.ics"
    },
    "body": "@{variables('icalContent')}"
  }
}
```

### Sample iCal Generation in PowerAutomate

```json
{
  "type": "Initialize variable",
  "inputs": {
    "variables": [
      {
        "name": "icalContent",
        "type": "string",
        "value": "BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0\nPRODID:-//PowerAutomate//NONSGML Calendar//EN\nBEGIN:VEVENT\nUID:@{guid()}@domain.com\nDTSTAMP:@{formatDateTime(utcNow(), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nDTSTART:@{formatDateTime(variables('eventStart'), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nDTEND:@{formatDateTime(variables('eventEnd'), 'yyyyMMddTHHmmssZ')}\nSUMMARY:@{variables('eventTitle')}\nDESCRIPTION:@{variables('eventDescription')}\nEND:VEVENT\nEND:VCALENDAR"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Troubleshooting Checklist

- [ ] URL is accessible and returns HTTP 200
- [ ] Response contains `BEGIN:VCALENDAR` and `END:VCALENDAR`
- [ ] Content-Type header is set appropriately
- [ ] iCal structure is valid (use validator)
- [ ] Events are within the date range being queried
- [ ] PowerAutomate Logic App has events to return
- [ ] No authentication required for the URL
- [ ] Character encoding is UTF-8
- [ ] Line endings are consistent

## Enhanced Debugging Output

The enhanced test endpoint now returns comprehensive debugging information:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "eventCount": 0,
  "upcomingEvents": 0,
  "calendarInfo": {},
  "responseInfo": {
    "status": 200,
    "statusText": "OK",
    "contentType": "application/octet-stream",
    "contentLength": "542",
    "responseLength": 542,
    "responsePreview": "BEGIN:VCALENDAR\nVERSION:2.0\n...",
    "headers": {
      "content-type": "application/octet-stream",
      "content-length": "542",
      "server": "Microsoft-IIS/10.0"
    }
  },
  "message": "Successfully parsed iCal feed with 0 total events (0 upcoming)"
}
```

## Next Steps

If the PowerAutomate URL still returns 0 events after following this guide:

1. **Share Debug Output**: Provide the complete responseInfo from the test endpoint
2. **Validate iCal Content**: Use external validators to confirm the iCal structure
3. **Check Date Ranges**: Ensure events fall within the current date range being queried
4. **Review Logic App Logic**: Verify the PowerAutomate Logic App is generating events correctly

This debugging framework provides comprehensive insights into why PowerAutomate iCal integration might fail and offers actionable solutions for each common issue.
